# Multiple-Stressor-Aquaria-Controller
General Description
- This repository contains the scripts developed for the study titled "An Aquaria Setup for Long-term, Multiple-stressor Research in Marine Organisms". For a comprehensive explanation of the code, please refer to Appendix A in the article. Reference: An aquaria setup for long-term, multiple-stressor research in marine organisms. C. Gutiérrez-Zárate, A. Veiga, A. Gori, F. Gerpe, L. Domínguez, A. Rodríguez, N. Arias, M. Álvarez, R. Acerbi, L. Vázquez, J. Movilla, M. M. Varela, R. Alba-Salgueiro, J. Valencia-Vila, & C. Orejas (In Press). Methods in Ecology and Evolution.
- The scripts were developed to conduct multiple stressor experiments in aquaria using two working Raspberry Pi: one for the control and log of temperature (Controller 1, C1), and a second for the control and log of pH and DO (Controller 2, C2). Temperature, pH and dissolved oxygen concentration (DO) are individually manipulated and simultaneously controlled in eight treatments. The setup had 8 header tanks (T1-T8) in which water parameters (i.e., temperature, pH, DO) were modified. Each header tank supplied water to three experimental aquaria. The experimental aquaria were placed inside warming baths, whose temperature was also controlled and logged. 
- Temperature from one experimental aquarium from each treatment was logged as well. Extra temperature probes were installed in key parts of the aquaria setup (i.e., supply water to the life support and aquaria systems) to detect further issues. A fifth warming bath (i.e., BM5) was set to 25 ºC to allow the acclimation of the pH calibration fluids to conduct the calibration of pH probes. Two extra pH and DO probes were set, referred to as 9 and 10 (i.e., pH9, Od10). Two theoretical tanks (C1 and C2) where these probes would be set were created to log their readings. These probes replaced potential malfunctioning probes without interrupting the whole control and log system. The Raspberry Pi controlling pH and DO also read and logged the temperature from each header tank for the temperature compensation of the pH and DO readings. 
- An extra script is needed: Atlas Scientific I2C sample code for Raspberry Pi. The script can be found here: https://github.com/AtlasScientific/Raspberry-Pi-sample-code. For example, calibration of the pH and DO probes was performed using this script.
- The scripts were originally developed in Spanish. The main text has been translated to allow for its widespread. Some functions and names remain in Spanish and can be easily replaced (e.g., od = DO, sonda = probe). Likewise, some tank names/codes have been kept: Warming baths had the code ‘BM’ + number (e.g., BM1, BM2). Inside them, two experimental aquaria, one from each treatment, were named based on their supply water tube colour (e.g., BM1negro, BM1blanco).

Authors

Code developped by Fabian Gerpe and Leo Domínguez (Aquarium Finisterrae)
Translation by Cristina Gutiérrez-Zárate (IEO-CSIC)
Contact: crgutiez7@alumnes.ub.edu

This project has received funding from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No 818123 (iAtlantic). This output reflects only the author’s view and the European Union cannot be held responsible for any use that may be  made of the information contained therein.
